You have responsible for bug fixes and feature enhancements on  a program which executes a roommate matching program at a university.  The program is written in Java, uses the H2 SQL database, and uses Git for source control.  You are expected to respond to requests from different offices in the university and make updates to the program.  The program is intended to be as simple as possible, in the event that this tutorial is also an introduction to Java.  This tutorial is intended to be guided by an instructor who is familiar with the Git command line tool.

Create an account on GitHub and fork this repository to begin.

Lesson 1) Clone a repository

Clone the GitSmart project and review the program source code (StudentMatch.java and univeristy.ddl) and build StudentMatch.jar with:

		mvn clean install -DskipTests

Run the StudentMatch.jar file with:

		java -jar ./target/StudentMatch.jar

You will see a list of options.  Study these options and compare them to classes and methods in the src folder.  

 Run the DDL to create the database via:

		java -jar ./target/StudentMatch.jar --run-ddl ./src/main/resources/university.ddl

and then run a SQL query to validate that the database was created, e.g.

		java -jar ./target/StudentMatch.jar --run-query "SELECT * from students"

   Note: Any resemblance to actual Beatles, living or dead, is entirely coincidental, and unintended.

Lesson 2) Adding a feature to the program

You have received a memo from Bro in the registrar's office stating the following:

 -----------------------------------------
 Dude,

   I think we might need a new feature to start tracking where students are from.  The Dean of Students says that two students from the same hometown should not share the same dorm room, so that the students learn about different parts of the country.  Here's everyone's hometown:

	George Harrison: Liverpool
        John Lennon: Manchester
        Ringo Starr: London
        Paul McCartney: Liverpool

		- Thanks,

                  Bro'
 -----------------------------------------

Create a new Git branch called "hometown_tracking" with:

	git checkout -b hometown_tracking

We will call this a "feature branch", because it represents a new feature to the program that we're working on.  Add a hometown for each student in the DDL.  Validate that the new DDL runs, and that the database looks correct.  Use the command:

	git status

to see what files have changed, and use

	git add src/main/resources/university.ddl

to stage changes to be committed.  When ready, commit the change via:

	git commit -m "Added student hometown data to the DDL"

And push this feature branch to GitHub:

	git push origin hometown_tracking

Lesson 3) Merging a feature branch into the master branch

Checkout the "master" branch:

	git checkout master

 merge the "hometown tracking" branch:

	git merge hometown_tracking

Use:
	git log

To see the commit history for master.  

Lesson 4) Adding to a feature branch

Check out the feature branch again:

	git checkout "hometown_tracking"  

Modify the roommate matching function to ensure two students from the same hometown are not sharing a room.   

    Hint:  Create two List<Student> objects called "assigned" and "unassigned", and move students into the "assigned" list as they pass the hometown check.

Test the change, commit the change on the "hometown_tracking" branch, and merge it into the "master" branch, pushing the master branch to GitHub.  

Lesson 5) Working multiple feature/hotfix branches.

You receive the following memo from the Student Health office:

	Dear IT Department,

        It seems that a bad case of the Willies has been going around the English countryside.  We need to start tracking which students have the Willies immunization and which do not, and ensure that students who are not vaccinated are not allowed to share a room with another student.  These students should be quarantined in their own room(s).  This information is confidential, and should be put into a separate table.  Attached is a list of students and their immunization status:

	Student ID          Immunized
        -----------------------------------
        001                 yes
        002                 yes
        003                 no
        004                 yes

                Sincerely,

                Dr Quack
                Head of Student Health

  You are able to update the DDL, (call this branch something like "vaccination_tracking") but before you can adjust the Java code to deal with the immunization problem, you get the following urgent message from Bro in the Registrar's Office:

	Dude,

	Urgent!  Mrs. Starr called, and says that little Ringo has an irrational fear of students with glasses.  Something about being afraid that the glasses can peer into his soul.  Apparently we need to start tracking who wears glasses now, as well has who has a fear of corrective lenses, and make sure that never the two shall meet.  This information can go into the existing student table.  The Dean of Students has already called the head of IT and said that you should stop whatever you're working on to address this, even if some of the students have to contract the Willies before fall classes start.  I've included the relevant data as an attachment.

                - Bro


         Last Name               Wears Glasses            Has Lensophobia
         ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Harrison                NO                       NO
         Starr                   NO                       YES
         Lennon                  YES                      NO
         McCartney               NO                       NO

   Commit your changes to the Willies feature branch and push the branch to the remote repository, but don't merge it into master.  Start a new branch called "hotfix_phobias" and make the appropriate fix.    When the change has been entered and tested, commit, merge the branch into master, and push.

   When complete, check out the Willies branch, merge master into it, finish the change, commit the Willies feature, and merge into master.  Note that depending on your team workflow, you should always merge "master" (or the current team development branch) into your feature branch before merging your changes back into the team branch, to ensure that you have thoroughly tested everything while still working the feature/fix branch.  By always "merging and testing" into your current feature branch, you won't "break the build" and interrupt the continuous integration workflow.


   (Extra Credit) Tag the master branch with this feature as "v1.1", then push to GitHub.

	

Lesson 6: Visualizing the branching flow

On a sheet of paper, draw a timeline of your branching and commit workflow, similar to "The GitHub Flow" image here:

	https://www.endpoint.com/blog/2014/05/02/git-workflows-that-work







